# 2024_Synopsys_AneshthesiaTCI_TFT

Anesthesiologists are involved in 40 million surgeries annually, but they can be prohibitively expensive, can be excluded from insurance, and their numbers are drastically declining. Current methods for anesthesia infusion involve Target-Controlled Infusion(TCI) systems that modulate infusion rates using Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic(PK/PD) models. However, their accuracy is not guaranteed due to patient variability, as these mathematical models process limited information. This forces a need for Anesthesiologists in more surgeries, drastically increasing costs and lowering accessibility. 
My project aims to automate and improve the accuracy of TCI for the anesthetic drug Propofol with a machine-learning model based on a Temporal Fusion Transformer(TFT). The model adapts its architecture complexity using gating modules and filters out irrelevant data with selection networks. Using separate specialized modules, it processes static data, such as weight, and temporal data, such as heart rate. An auxiliary TFT-based model accounts for the spikes in infusion rate.
This novel approach of using a model capable of understanding static and dynamic variables while focusing on the most valuable data for TCI leads to more accurate and personalized predictions. This model outperforms all PK/PD models by 70% or above in every metric. It achieves a Root Mean Squared Error(RMSE) of 10.19, a Mean Absolute Error(MAE) of 4.36, and an R2 of 86.49%. My approach offers a new, practical, and more automated framework for TCI, presenting a solution to the critical Anesthesiologist shortage and improving quality and access to care for millions.
